Code Book for Getting and Cleaning Data Project
===============================================

This is the Code Book for Getting and Cleaning Data project on Coursera.

Details of the coursera project can be found here:
<https://class.coursera.org/getdata-004/human_grading/view/courses/972137/assessments/3/submissions>

Source of the original data:
<https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip>

A full description of how the original data was obtained can be found
here:
<http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones>

The run\_analysis.R script file performs the following to clean up the
data:

1.  Reads the activities and the measurement variables from the
    activity\_labels.txt and features.txt files respectively.

2.  The measurement variable names read in the above step will be passed
    as column names parameter when reading the train and test data in
    the next step. Therefore, the script replaces special characters
    like brackets, dashes and commas in these names with blanks and
    underscores.

3.  Reads the following training data files:
    -   subject data from train/subject\_train.txt,
    -   measurement data from train/X\_train.txt, and
    -   activity data from train/y\_train.txt data files, into a 7352 X
        563 data frame.

4.  Reads the following test data files:
    -   subject data from test/subject\_test.txt,
    -   measurement data from test/X\_test.txt, and
    -   activity data from test/y\_test.txt data files, into a 2947 X
        563 data frame.

5.  Merges the training and the test data into a 10299 X 563 data frame.

6.  Finds the measurement variables with mean and std in their names
    (not including the ones with meanFreq in their names). There are 66
    such variables. Selects those 66 columns along with subject and
    activity columns into a 10299 X 68 data frame.

7.  Using the data from activity\_labels.txt, changes activity column
    from integer to factor containing descriptive activity names.

8.  Changes the column names for various measurements by getting rid of
    underscores and abbreviations and converting to lower case. The
    script assumes that the double "bodybody" in the original
    measurement name is a mistake and replaces it with a single "body".

9.  Finally, creates tidy data set with the average of every measurement
    for each activity and subject. Since there are 30 subjects and 6
    activities, this results in a data frame with 180 rows. Since there
    are 66 measurements with mean and standard deviation in their names,
    there are 68 columns in the tidy data frame (the first 2 columns
    being activity and subject).

Code Book
---------

The tidydata.txt file generated by the run\_analysis.txt file contains
the following variables.

-   1st column is *activity* - Can have the following values
    1.  WALKING
    2.  WALKING\_UPSTAIRS
    3.  WALKING\_DOWNSTAIRS
    4.  SITTING
    5.  STANDING
    6.  LAYING
-   2nd column is *subject* - Integer between 1 to 30.

-   The last 66 columns are measurement variables, containing the
    average for every measurement for each activity and subject. The
    values are numeric with a -1 to +1 range. The names of these columns
    are listed below

    -   timebodyaccelerationmeanx
    -   timebodyaccelerationmeany
    -   timebodyaccelerationmeanz
    -   timebodyaccelerationstdx
    -   timebodyaccelerationstdy
    -   timebodyaccelerationstdz
    -   timegravityaccelerationmeanx
    -   timegravityaccelerationmeany
    -   timegravityaccelerationmeanz
    -   timegravityaccelerationstdx
    -   timegravityaccelerationstdy
    -   timegravityaccelerationstdz
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkmeanx
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkmeany
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkmeanz
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkstdx
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkstdy
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkstdz
    -   timebodygyroscopemeanx
    -   timebodygyroscopemeany
    -   timebodygyroscopemeanz
    -   timebodygyroscopestdx
    -   timebodygyroscopestdy
    -   timebodygyroscopestdz
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkmeanx
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkmeany
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkmeanz
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkstdx
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkstdy
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkstdz
    -   timebodyaccelerationmagnitudemean
    -   timebodyaccelerationmagnitudestd
    -   timegravityaccelerationmagnitudemean
    -   timegravityaccelerationmagnitudestd
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkmagnitudemean
    -   timebodyaccelerationjerkmagnitudestd
    -   timebodygyroscopemagnitudemean
    -   timebodygyroscopemagnitudestd
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkmagnitudemean
    -   timebodygyroscopejerkmagnitudestd
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationmeanx
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationmeany
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationmeanz
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationstdx
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationstdy
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationstdz
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkmeanx
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkmeany
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkmeanz
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkstdx
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkstdy
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkstdz
    -   frequencybodygyroscopemeanx
    -   frequencybodygyroscopemeany
    -   frequencybodygyroscopemeanz
    -   frequencybodygyroscopestdx
    -   frequencybodygyroscopestdy
    -   frequencybodygyroscopestdz
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationmagnitudemean
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationmagnitudestd
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkmagnitudemean
    -   frequencybodyaccelerationjerkmagnitudestd
    -   frequencybodygyroscopemagnitudemean
    -   frequencybodygyroscopemagnitudestd
    -   frequencybodygyroscopejerkmagnitudemean
    -   frequencybodygyroscopejerkmagnitudestd
